wofi-pass(1) -- pass support for wofi
===

## SYNOPSIS

`wofi-pass` [<OPTIONS>...]

## OPTIONS

* `-a`, `--autotype`:
Autotype whatever entry is chosen.

* `-c`, `--copy` [<cmd>]:
Copy to clipboard. Defaults to `wl-copy` if no <cmd> is given.

* `-f`, `--fileisuser`:
Use the name of the password file as username.

* `-h`, `--help`:
Show the help message

* `-i`, `--insensitive`:
Search for password in a case-insensitive way

* `-s`, `--squash`:
Don't show field choice if password file only contains password.

* `-t`, `--type` [<cmd>]:
Type the selection instead of copying to clipboard.
Defaults to `wtype` if no <cmd> is given.

* `-k`, `--nohotkeys`:
Disable the hotkeys support for wofi-pass.
The hotkeys feature is by default enabled.
`wofi` supports the required custom keys feature from version v1.4.
If you are using an older `wofi` version or
a `wofi` alternative that does not have custom keys support at all,
the hotkey feature can be disabled to avoid errors.

## CONFIGURATION FILE

One way to customize the `wofi-pass` behavior is to change the configuration file.
`wofi-pass` does not require a configuration file,
but searches the following paths for a valid configuration file at every startup:

- `${WOFI_PASS_CONFIG}`
- `${XDG_CONFIG_HOME}/wofi-pass/config`
- `/etc/wofi-pass.conf`

`wofi-pass` only reads the first configuration file it finds.
The order of searching is the same as in the list above.

If the environment variable `${XDG_CONFIG_HOME}` is not set,
it is replaced by the default value `${HOME}/.config`. 

## CONFIGURATION VARIABLES

The following variables can be redefined in configuration file.

### COMMON

* `PASSWORD_STORE_DIR` :
Path to the pass storage files. Default: `${HOME}/.password-store`

### COMMANDS

* `CMD_COPY` :
Command to redirect the output to the clipboard. Default: `wl-copy`

* `CMD_TYPE` :
Command to type the output. Default: `wcopy -`

### PASS FIELDS

* `PASS_FIELD_USERNAME`:
`pass` field to be used as username for autotype. Default: `username`

### HOTKEYS

* `HOTKEY_USERNAME`:
Hotkey definition for direct selection of the username field.
See **wofi-keys**(7) for the key codes. Default hotkey is `Alt-u`.

* `HOTKEY_PASSWORD`:
Hotkey definition for direct selection of the password field.
See **wofi-keys**(7) for the key codes. Default hotkey is `Alt-p`.

* `HOTKEY_AUTOTYPE`:
Hotkey definition for direct selection of the autotype field.
See **wofi-keys**(7) for the key codes. Default hotkey is `Alt-a`.

* `HOTKEY_OTP`:
Hotkey definition for direct selection of the OTP field.
See **wofi-keys**(7) for the key codes. Default hotkey is `Alt-o`.

## PASSWORD FILES

`wofi-pass` assumes password files are formatted like the following:

    Th3Gr3at3stPassw0rd
    username: JohnDoe
    email: john@example.com
    otpauth://totp/example?secret=ABCDCBABCDCBABCD
    pin: 1234

Note that the password is **ALWAYS** on the first line.

## AUTOTYPE

The function <autotype> activates a formatted output of a `pass` entry.

The <autotype> function can be activated in 3 different ways:

1. by setting the option `-a` the selected entry will be output formatted
2. selecting the field `autotype` or press `HOTKEY_AUTOTYPE` hotkey will output the entry formatted
3. adding the field `autotype_always` to the `pass` entry, this entry will always be output formatted.

### AUTOTYPE FORMAT

The format of the <autotype> is by default is as follows:

`username :tab pass`

and is defined by `WOFI_PASS_AUTOTYPE`.
The autotype format string consists of a combination of keywords and pass fields separated by a space.
The keywords are the follows:

* `:tab`:
Type the Tab-key if type mode active else output \t.

* `:space`:
Type the Space-key if type mode active else output " ".

* `:enter`:
Type the Enter-key if type mode active else output \n.

* `:delay`:
Delay the output for a specified time.
The time is defined by `WOFI_PASS_DELAY` in seconds,
where the default value is **2** seconds.
Is only executed when type mode is active.

* `:otp`:
Output the One Time Password

* `:password`:
Output the password

* `:username`:
Output the username field, defined by `PASS_FIELD_USERNAME`

* `:path`:
Output the filename of selected `:pass` entry

All other entries are interpreted as `pass` fields
and output the contents of the respective field.

